this is the ultimate guide on how to
optimize your windows in 2025 for gaming
guys and I'm going to show you directly
the best Nvidia control panel settings
with a detailed explanation on what to
use these are all the best settings for
gaming as well as the best network
adapter settings for gaming for the
least amount of latency and all the
crucial Windows tweaks which I did like
deep looting my system and also a few
other visual tweaks which you can do to
just squeeze out a little bit better
performance out of your gaming machine
so therefore if you enjoyed the video
please make sure that you leave a like
And subscribe guys and now let's
continue and now I'm about to cover the
best Nvidia control panel settings with
descriptions why you should use it and
what not first of all go you under ad
just image settings with preview and
then click under take me there guys by
the way this overrides this one here
anyway so yeah you could theoretically
put it to Performance but if you use
this one it doesn't even matter because
this overrides it in the first place we
don't want to use image scaling of
course there are some games where image
scaling is pretty good I'm not going to
lie but for most competitive games it's
more worth it to maybe use a stretch
resolution instead of actually using
image scaling or any software to upscale
your picture but especially in some
games where you're like super struggling
with performance this is something you
might want to try out maybe could look
good you know but for most games just
simply keep it off ENT occlusion this
one actually improves the visuals in
games and art St b a lot but it also
adds additional latency especially input
delay so what we want to do is actually
turn this one off for competitive next
up we have anti stopic filtering and
this one you want to leave on
application control since you can see
guys you have different filters 2x 4X 8X
16x most of these here you're anyways
going to basically adjust in games
directly so therefore yeah just let me
leave it on application control anti
izing FXAA this one we're going to put
to all it kind of adds a blur and also
increases input lag so therefore just
simp we leave it on Native which means
leaving it on off next up we have
initializing GMA correction and this one
we're also going to leave on off
actually since it has minimal impact in
most games so there for another
additional mode which is just going to
basically take performance of our GPU
next up we have antialising modee and
this one we're also going to leave on
application controlled again guys
something which you want to actually
like set up in the games which you are
playing guys and not here in this menu
for all games directly analizing
transparency we're also going to keep on
off not where you need it unless you
want to get the absolute best visuals in
games guys then of course you could
leave it on but for most as mentioned
for competitive factors you're going to
leave it on off then background
application this is kind of like an
interesting one I guess theoretically if
you struggle with your PC and
performance you could turn it on and put
everything which is in the background
Maybe YouTube running or whatever or
like wallpaper engine as you can see
here to be kind of slowed down to 20 FPS
only that would make sense I guess yeah
you could try it out kind of interesting
feature for me personally I don't run
into these issues so I keep it on off
then Cuda gpus you basically want to
leave on all guys and it allows all your
Cuda calls to basically be used for
gaming so therefore make sure that this
one is turned on super important and
matching to it the Cuda system fullback
policy you're going to leave just simply
on driver default next up guys we have
DSR factors and this one is kind of
interesting because you can do upscaling
and let's say as an example now that my
screen is 1080p I could actually for
certain story games maybe where it's
like super important I could upscale my
picture by time 1.78 you know to get
down to 2560 * 1440 on my 108p monitor
it's of course not going to look as good
but it is something which you should try
out maybe in story games you know to
upscale the picture even more and just
get like a little bit better visuals
let's say that you may be playing the
new Assassin's Creed or whatever you
guys want to play and you feel like damn
this game already looks good but I want
to look even better this is something
which you should try out maybe or even
for some competitive games like war zone
personally I would use the Legacy
scaling but yeah here can see guys you
have 1.5 1.2 you know just like a few
resolutions which are usually not
supported or here even 4K if I want to
run 4k on my screen I can do it now so
they have pretty cool feature now the
low latency mode guys this one is kind
of tricky because there are many
different sources which say that Ultra
Fields the best many different ones
which say that on fields the best for me
personally always got to say you guys
got to try out both but for me uh I've
been actually using Ono for quite a
while now on all my devices and I ran
pretty well with it kind of what it does
it tries to to minimize input lag by
reducing render cues basically all you
got to know is pictures arrive faster on
your screen that's all so therefore
definitely handy feature keep it on on
Ultra maximum frame rate I mean this is
absolutely uh yeah self-explanatory you
know if you keep it on off you have
unlimited and let's say now as an
example that your CS usually runs around
250 FPS something like that it would
make sense to cap it at 240 to get like
a more stable picture you know like a
more stable experience and also
sometimes there may be moments where
your CS can can run up to 400 and In
This Moment your PC is producing so many
more pictures that it actually generates
heat and after a longer gaming period if
you don't have like super optimal
Cooling in your PC this could cause
thermal throttling so therefore actually
240 might be the sweet spot if you're
around there you know cap your FPS on a
little bit like weaker to mid-end
systems and on highend just simply keep
it off multiframe sampled AA this one
we're going to put to off as well guys
since this one actually can cause visual
issues in some games so therefore turn
it off guys we want the competitive
Vantage openg GL GDI compability we're
going to leave on auto there are really
no benefits to kind of like putting it
on performance or compability and now to
open GL render GPU this one they just
simply going to select your current GPU
which you have right now which kind of
just selects like oh yeah for most of my
tasks I want to use my main GPU if you
have multiple ones which yeah who has
multiple Nvidia gpus in 2025 you know
what I'm saying like SLI and stuff like
that doesn't exist really anymore so
therefore yeah don't be worried there
then we have the power management mode
there of course we want to prefer
maximum performance I mean kind of
self-explanatory you're kind of just
preventing the down clicking of your GPU
so therefore yeah keep it on Max
performance preferred refresh rate of
course on the highest available yeah
super important guys if you're already
using a 240 HZ panel you also want to
use the maximum Herz now for the Shader
cach size you could leave it on 10 or
even unlimited for me I always keep it
on 10 doesn't really make a difference
it kind of just speeds up loading times
and reduces stutter you know especially
if you're playing maybe a larger open
World Games next up we have texture
filtering this one we actually want to
keep on on because it slightly boost
performance you of course going to lose
a little bit of the visual quality but
it's so small guys that it's actually
worthy performance increase next up we
have texture filtering LOD bias and this
one doesn't really matter because we're
not changing in most games actually the
level of detail we can kind of like
reduce textures even more with a
specific tool called the Nvidia profile
inspector unless you're playing fortnite
you probably never heard of this not
going to lie texture filtering quality
we're going to leave on high performance
guys super super important because we
want to prioritize FPS instead of
actually having you know like quality
texture filtering trillionaire
optimization we want to keep on on guys
and it gives us a nice small little FPS
boost you know what I'm saying
definitely does help so therefore keep
it on on now threaded optimization you
actually want to keep on on guys and the
reason behind that is you kind of want
to force to ensure that multi threaded
rendering is active in all of your games
that your games get rendered across
multiple threats so therefore make sure
this one is turned on triple buffering
this one you're going to keep on all
this only is a mode which really
benefits if you're using vsync but as
you can see guys vsync is completely
turned off here the only instances where
you want to use vsync and triple
buffering is if you have some blurriness
on a 60 HZ panel or maybe 75 but
anything above that you know what most
people have in 2025 you definitely don't
want to use it and all of these virtual
reality settings and Vulcan openg GL
you're going to keep on these stock ones
or just simply off then we're going to
hit apply guys real quick now next up
what's super important as well guys is
configure surround and physics and this
one is kind of important because physics
kind of calculates particles and
clothing and explosions and all of that
in games and for most PCS out there it's
always better to render all of these
physics over your main GPU there's only
a small portion of users where your GPU
is so weak that it might be beneficial
to render it on your CPU but for most
instances guys you want to definitely
render this on your GPU to free up the
CPU you know this is a super heavy test
so therefore you don't want to put it on
your CPU but rather on your GPU for me
as you can see I'm running a 4090 so
therefore it's of course a no-brainer
that I render it over that and rather
leave all the rest of the power for my
CPU next up under change resolution you
definitely want to make sure that you're
checking out your main desktop rest and
always select the highest refresh rate
guys there's so many people who don't
have that actually and un adjust color
settings you can also make your games a
little bit more colorful this is special
trick guys with digital vibrants you can
see mine is right now set on plus 75%
and the same as well with adjust video
color settings where I put my saturation
as well on plus 75% this is going to
make your games look so much more
saturated guys so therefore that's a
great feature which you actually want to
utilize for most competitive games
especially and if you go under adjust
desktop size and position actually
unless you are not using a stretch
resolution guys you want to have no
scaling at all but for me I'm right now
using a stretch res actually in most
games so therefore I'm using full screen
and you always want to perform the
scaling actually on the display itself
guys here again I only have to put it on
GPU because of Counter Strike too you
know it doesn't work really with that
but for most you out there guys you
always want to perform the scaling on
the display and not put another heavy
task on your GPU here once again double
check that your refresh rate is set on
the highest possible and then hit apply
are you currently struggling with super
high ping in all of your favorite games
this is exactly where noing is coming in
clutch noing is going to help you you to
pick the best DNS servers in your near
to make sure that you have the least
amount of ping all you have to do is
select your favorite game and it's going
to show you all these servers which are
available in your near now all you have
to do is pick the one with the least
amount of Ms and you're going to get the
most secure and best connection to these
Game Servers on top of that the brand
new improve version of the noing client
has some of the best FPS tweaks which
are all approved and well tested built
directly into the client and with my
link in the video description you can
try it out for absolutely free so
therefore make sure that you check it
out right now and allate your gaming
experience and what we about it set up
in the first Place guys are the r
network adapter settings and that's
super easy all you got to do is search
up the device manager in your windows
search bar until you can find control
panel open it up and then you have this
new window here what we're going to
search from here on is now network
adapters and for most of you there might
be actually multiple as you can see guys
I have my land connection which is my
real tech gaming 2.5gb family controller
and then I of course also have my Wi-Fi
and what you can do is Select either of
those here just simply double click onto
it for me I'm using most of the time
actually my L connection so therefore
I'm going to double click onto it and
then you can see the general settings
and what we want to do is Click under
Advan here on the top and once we're in
advance now guys we're going to go
through this whole entire list and I'm
going to give you all of the best
settings first of all advanced e we're
going to put undisabled this one is
going to reduce latency spikes which we
definitely don't want for gaming next up
we have RP offload this one we're also
going to put to disable since we want to
prevent offloading actually for gaming
next up we have e Max support speed and
this one we're going to put completely
to the highest since we want to have the
most stable speed so therefore 1 GB per
second full duplex Energy Efficiency
eanet this one we're going to put as
well to disabled Flo control we're also
going to put two disabled guys since it
can add latency and it's better to turn
this off for gaming so therefore don't
leave it on rxtx enabled straight up
disabled gigabyte light this one we're
going to put as well to disabled guys
since this is also another an power
saving feature so therefore disabled
green eanet this one you also want to
disable it kind of gives you better
latency and it's also more stable so
therefore put it on disabled interrupt
moderation disabling this one here also
improves latency so therefore we're
going to put it on disabled ipv4 checks
some offload this one is kind of
interesting one because disabling this
one can actually reduce CPU load so that
is kind of nice for gaming some people
also say you should maybe use it but for
me personally I disabled this on all my
machines and I had no ping issues
whatsoever so therefore also here
disabled next up we have jumbo frames
and this one you're going to put UND
disabled as well here on the lowest one
which is a wable for you since it's not
needed for gaming this is again another
additional mode which is just running
through potentially causing more latency
you know it's kind of like the same
thing like with most tweaks a single
tweak itself is not too impactful but
all of them combined is what makes a
difference next up we have large sent
offload V2 where we have the ipv4 and
IPv6 version these here both you're also
going to put to disabled guys and these
here as well add additional tension on
your CPU so therefore you can actually
fully disable them and you're going to
have no disadvantage when it comes down
to gaming maximum number of rsss Q's
this one we're going to put on one Q
since we want to keep the workload on a
single CPU core this can also Reduce by
the way micr latency so therefore make
sure that you put it on the on one Q we
want to keep this as responsive as
possible next up we have NS offload and
this one is also not needed for gaming
so therefore once again we're just going
to disable everything which is not
needed for gaming power saving mode I
mean this one was kind of
self-explanatory you don't want to do
this you want to get the best
performance so therefore disable it
priority and VLAN this one you got to
know for yourself if you actually use
this for something guys there might be
some process on your PC which I actually
utilize this but for most people I don't
even think most know what this does so
therefore yeah for me personally I also
always disable it just simply put it on
priority and V disabled now next up guys
we have receive buffers and this usually
depends on your network adapter some can
do 1024 and some can even do 512 if
that's possible guys you got to check it
out on yours but basically the lower
this number is the better it is for
latency since it means lower data packs
which is going to give you less delay
basically the lower this number is the
lower the data packs are going to be
which is better for latency so therefore
if yours supports 512 you can do that
but if it's only 1024 that's also no big
issue receive sight scaling this one
should also be undisabled actually what
this basically does it prevents packet
speed across course which can introduce
latency so therefore we won't disable it
shut down wake up on land this one also
on disabled guys just simply put it here
on disabled it's also a power saving
feature don't really care about it speed
and duplex guys this one here you want
to put on the highest which your PC can
actually offer guys you don't want to
leave it on automatic for me it's 2.5 GB
per second BCP checks them offload ipv4
and IPv6 you want to both of them
actually put onto disabled here as well
guys next up we have transmit buffers
this one you want to keep again on the
lowest one possible which from here is
actually 512 which is going to give you
the least amount of latency UDP checks
some offload ipv4 and IPv6 you're both
of them as well going to put onto
disabled which is again going to improve
your latency overall vand ID you're
going to keep on the default one and
wake up on Magic packet you're going to
put on the disabled guys the same as
well with wake up on pattern match both
of them onto disabled and then we
already good to go and all we got to do
is click okay here and all of the best
network adapter settings are applied for
the least amount of latency and now in
the first place we're going to get rid
of all of these unwanted applications
which are launching every time you
launch your PC so what we're going to do
is search up startup applications under
system settings open it up and in here
now guys you can see the overwhelming
amount of programs which I have here
which are launching every single time
when I start this PC especially the
Razer app engine uses around 250 mbits
of your RAM so there's really a lot of
here going on guys so what you're going
to do is make sure to disable every
single one which you don't need whenever
you start your PC so I'm just going to
make sure to uncheck all of these here
steel series software for my keyboard
also don't need it and then basically I
just leave my goxlr application that's
all the main reason why you want to do
this guys is because every single
application has multiple processes like
take a look at this here the GG Galaxy
launcher has 1 2 3 four processes
running in the background the same with
razor cortex and all these other ones so
therefore you you want to make sure that
you actually don't even start them
whenever you launch your PC if you don't
need them then you're going to click
under personalization here on the left
side and now we're going to go into
customization we can see backgrounds
click onto this guys and actually one
simple trick which you can do on your
windows directly is put your
personalized background to a solid color
it's going to look a lot worse but
actually all of these small things
combined you know they do improve your
performance but I'm going to keep it
here on picture right now because I
really like my background what we're
going to do is go back one then scroll
down again until you can see colors and
then you're going to make sure that you
put transparency effects windows and
surfaces appear translucent on off guys
super important as well then we're going
to go over under applications and there
we have installed application just go
through this list here real quick and if
you see something which you don't need
or don't want anymore just simply
uninstall it real quick from your PC it
only takes a few seconds guys here as an
example I now uninstalled my TeamSpeak
overlay from overwolf just simply go for
it real quick and make sure the number
of installed applications is as low as
possible once we're done with these
we're going to go into our Windows
search bar and type in their performance
until we can see adjust the appearance
and performance of Windows in this
window now you can basically select how
your windows should look like whether it
should be adjusted for best appearance
which is going to enable all of these
animations and basically everything
which Windows has to offer to look as
good as possible or straight up for best
performance and for me personally guys
always click under adjust for best
performance and then only enable show
thumbnails instead of icons that way you
can still see MP4 files or recordings
with a small preview of what's actually
in the recording then all you got to do
is click and apply real quick and then
you can see your Windows is not going to
have all these fancy animations anymore
if you move the window around you only
get a small preview and it's not the
actual thing these are all small things
again which can speed up your windows
overall and just reduce memory usage and
next up in here we're going to go under
Advanced because what many people also
don't have set up properly is their
virtual memory guys and let me explain
this your virtual memory is so important
especially on PCS with less than 16 gigs
of RAM what you want to do is uncheck
automatically manage paging file sizes
for all drives and now you can select
custom values and let me give you a
small example here you can see on my
current PC build now I have 48 gigs of
RAM but let's say you would only have 8
gigs of RAM whenever these 8 gigs are
already like filled up with Windows a
recording or a game or whatsoever
Windows is putting additional data on
your virtual memory just to make sure
that your PC doesn't stutter and slow
down so therefore setting it up properly
can actually help you out a ton guys so
what we now going to do is use the
calculator and I'm going to do an
example now for let's say 8 gigs of RAM
the initial Ram size would be 8 * and
then 1,24 mbit because 1 gig of RAM is
1,24 mbit and as mentioned for this
example now I'm going to choose 8 gigs
of RAM so that would be
8,192 which we're just simply going to
put in here into the initial size and
now for the maximum size all you got to
do is take this whole entire thing and
times 2 and then we have
16,384 so therefore we're going to type
in
16,384 mbit now all you got to do is
Click under set and you're already good
to go this is the best way guys to fully
utilize this feature and trust me
especially as mentioned on PCS with less
Ram this is going to be such a huge game
changer next up you want to go into your
window search by again and click under
device manager now once it's opened up
it should look a little bit like this
here showcasing you everything on your
PC and what we want to see now here are
system devices which we going to open up
and then you're going to search for the
high Precision event timer guys and this
one has been reported to cost stutter
especially on newer versions of Windows
since years already so what you want to
do is right click onto it and make sure
to disable device guys super easy just
like that don't be worried nothing can
happen on your PC all it's going to do
is give you benefits there's so much
research on this already on the internet
feel free to Google it up yourself but
this is definitely something which I've
been doing since years and I can
definitely say my PC always runs super
smooth and now let's talk about debling
our Windows PC basically meaning that we
disable all of The Unwanted bloatware
which is pre-installed with Windows on
stock you know all these small ads and
applications which are already there in
your start menu which you never really
download it yourself well all of these
actually can make a huge difference and
probably take up up until a gigabyte of
your RAM and this is not where you're
going to search up Chris Titus tag
utility on Google and click on the first
link this is a proven tool so therefore
what we're going to do is copy here this
one comment just simply click under copy
on the right side and then we're going
to go back into our Windows search bar
type in that powers shell until you can
find Windows Powershell just the normal
one not x86 or isse and then right click
onto it and run it as administrator and
click on yes now once we are in this
window all you got to do is paste in the
following code guys and it's going to
automatically open up the tech utility
it's a very amazing tool which I've been
using as well know for many years now on
this channel and they just updated it
completely but all we got to worry about
are tweaks on the top section guys now
on the top now we can see recommended
selections standard minimal or clear
what we're going to use for this video
is standard guys because all of these
tweaks are proven to actually just
overall improve the performance of your
windows without any downsides and the
best part about it is the TCH utility
automatically creates a Resto point so
therefore you don't have the it's going
to delete all kinds of temporary files
disable consumer features which are
basically third party applications and
programs which are pre-installed on your
Windows PC your telary which is kind of
just Microsoft collecting data game DVR
which is this built-in recording app
which also no one really uses on Windows
since everyone is using OBS or Nvidia
and a whole bunch of other tweaks the
best part is as well you can just hover
over it and it's going to tell you
exactly what it does but before we going
to apply this we're also going to click
here under run o and O shutup on the
bottom now what run o and O shutup does
it's basically applying a bunch of
privacy settings which are really good
like disable and reset advertising ID
disable transmission of typing
information and basically a whole bunch
of more processes which are just
collecting data off your PC guys so what
we're going to do is Click under actions
and apply only recommended settings guys
that one is super important it's going
to ask you again if you want to create a
restore point and then afterwards all of
these settings are successfully applied
very easy to use now we're going to
close this click on okay here and now
we're going to run all of these tweaks
which are here in the utility therefore
run tweaks and now if you check out your
partial window you can see it's first of
all going to create a restart Point here
on the top and then just simply let it
run in the background guys it's a very
versatile tool which is just simply
going to make sure that you really get
the most power out of your Windows PC
since has so much crap on it
automatically stuck like Skype and a
whole bunch of other programs which no
one really uses so therefore don't be
worried there and as mentioned you have
a restart point and we already did one
in the beginning I hope so you did one
so therefore you don't have to be
worried if there's anything which you're
missing just simply revert to the
previous Windows version and you're good
to go there you can see it guys already
all the tweaks are being applied and
once it's done guys all you have to do
is reset your PC real quick just to make
sure that everything is fine and in this
next step guys now most people actually
don't utilize the ultimate performance
mode and that one is so beneficial
especially if you have a more High tier
PC you don't want to run your CPU on
balance mode if you actually check out
here this power plan and we check out
the advanced power settings we can now
see that under CPU power it should be
somewhere here processor our minimum is
now at 5% and our Max maximum at 100%
which means our CPU is not working
permanently on the best settings because
now once we put it over here to the
ultimate one and change the pop settings
here we can now see the minimum is as
well set to 100% of course that might
cause thermal throttling if your cooling
is not the best and all of that but for
most PCS this going to be totally fine
or what you want to use on a maybe a
little bit lower NPC is high performance
at least but as mentioned for most of
you guys ultimate performance is going
to be the best one and since many people
have no clue how to apply this I
actually coded here myself guys a little
program which as you can see basically
just adds the ultimate performance power
PL to your PC it's open source it's very
easy to use you're going to be able to
get it from my official discord.gg lbes
Link in BIO and it's going to be in
performance packs guys yeah once you
verify yourself you just simply have to
search up your performance on the search
bar and there you're going to find it
I'm going to upload it here after I
uploaded the video it's basically just a
little bad file and all you got to do is
run it as administrator and now you can
see the ultimate performance plan is now
enabled just enabling the mode and now
once we go into energy you're going to
tape it into Window search bar and edit
power plan then go here under power
options you can then see here on the
bottom guys that we added the ultimate
performance mode so and that one is
super crucial and beneficial for most
games out there so therefore please
always make sure that you run this one
here or as mentioned if you have maybe a
little bit weaker PC you could also try
out high performance but ultimate
performance is going to be the best for
most upto-date i5s uh ryzen 7s Intel
CPUs in general you know what I'm saying
guys so therefore make sure that you
utilize that one